Stocks for Noobs

Intro
=====
When you see “stock” think “part owner" of a company. Stock is an ownership stake in a corporation. A company’s stocks, or shares, are a way to keep track of the ownership of the company. If a company has issued 100,000 shares of stock, each individual share represents 1/100,000th of that company. These shares can be traded among investors. The trading process is very simple for companies that are publicly traded, meaning capable of being bought and sold " a market" by anyone through a stock exchange (a market for trading stocks).

Individual investors are mostly interested in publicly traded stocks. Private companies — a small business accros town, for example — may be a corporation with stock, but only a few people are involved in the business and it’s very difficult to buy and sell shares of ownership. Publicly traded stocks are a simple way to have a "share of ownership" in a business and to benefit from its profits. You can own a share of the company without having any involvement in the day-to-day operations — and you can sell your shares to trade them in for cash at any time.

When you buy stock, you become a shareholder in a company — one of thousands of co-owners. That entitles you to three things:

(1) If the company pays any dividends, all shareholders receive the same cash payment per share.
(2) If another company buys the company or its assets are sold off, your shares will entitle you to a portion of the proceeds.
(3) You can vote to elect the board of directors, which is responsible for running or appointing people to run the company.

Voting rights have little value, so the value of a company’s stock really is set by two things: 
1.    how much the company is expected to earn (future dividends) 
2.    how much it would be worth if it was sold (earnings and assets).



Why invest in stocks?
=====================

The simplest reason or purpose for investing in stocks is that it’s by far the easiest way to own a bunch of businesses and to benefit from their growth and earnings. Instead of being just a customer, you’re an owner who benefits from the profits that the company generates — and you do that without having to personally get involved with the business. Similarly, if you buy shares in a mutual fund that owns dozens or hundreds of companies, you benefit from what they earn all together a method limiting risk exposure with a basket of many.

Stocks are a way for you to invest in companies and earn money on their growth — there’s no better way to earn money with so little effort.

Typically, the long-term benefits are significant. The past has proven that when you invest in stocks over long periods of time — 10-15 years or more — your money usually grows more than with bonds, real estate, bank savings accounts or other types of accounts, like Certificates of Deposit (CDs). There are always market ups-and-downs along the way, of course. But if you view stocks as long-term investments (at least five years, but more like 10), you don’t have to worry about daily fluctuations. This is defined as a Long method.

This long-term approach makes investing simple. You don’t need to constantly monitor individual companies to decide which stocks are better or worse. Instead, you buy mutual funds in the stock asset classes that you prefer, and only revisit that mix should your financial needs change.